what is shell ? 
Shell is a user interface that allows user to interact with system . shell can command line intrface or graphical interface . it will interpret the commands given by the user and communicate with the operating system to execute the commands

what is CLI ?
cli means command line interface it a type of shell where user refers the commands as text to perform specific tasks.it is very much useful for automating , scripting and allows users to make complex tasks.

pwd  = present working directory
ls = list directory contents
ls -l = list directory in long listing format
cd = change directory 
cd ~ = go to home folder
cd / = go to root folder
mkdir = make directory
touch = touch command used to create file or multiple files
cat = concatenate used for displaying, creating, and manipulating text files
cp = copy command used to copy files
mv = move command used to rename and also move file to another folder
rm = remove command delete data permanently (cautious)

assignment :

create a repo on github as "Linux-basics-surya"
intiate the git in main folder as devops-practice
create the file structure
run the hello.sh script file
pushed all the files using commit message as "Assignment day 1"

quiz ans:
1. pwd
2. change the file permissions as 100 and execute it as ./filename
3. to remove dir with its contents i use "rm -i"
4. i use ls -a command to list all files and file which start with . are hidden files
5. ls -la means list directory contents with all the files including hiiden in long listing format

daily recap :
what commands i learn today ?
i learn linux basic commands like ls , cd , ls -la , touch , mkdir , cd~ , rm , chmod , cat , cp ,mv , pwd .
i also learn git commands like git inti , git add . , git status , git commit -m <message> , git remote add origin <url of repo> , git remove -v , git push origin main , git branch -m <name> .

what mistakes did i make and how i fix them ?
today i did not do any mistake in learning linux commands but i did lot of mistakes when using git and github.
when i initiated the git i did not give default config of username and email.
i did add remote repo before doing all the task on git.
i did not pull before push.
i got a problem when push the files . that was password authentication was removed. so , to solve this problem i created a classic token in the deloper setting of github and add that token as password when it prompted for password .
finally i push the code to the remote repo

did i document everything in github ?
yes i did  it the file 

post a day 1 recap on linkedin?
no 😢
